# Module 9 Challenge: Data Modeling, Engineering, and Analysis Using SQL
The purpose of this challenge is to create an employee database from company data, on which data analysis will be performed. 

## Data Modeling
The first part of this project is to model the data. To do this, I first inspected the six CSV files, which included data for the company departments, each department's employees, each department's managers, full employee data, salaries for each employee, and titles for the company. Using QuickDBD, I created an Entity Relationship Diagram to visualize the relationships between the tables. This diagram is shown in the employee_sql_ERD.png.

## Data Engineering 
Next, I created a table schema for each of the CSV files, specifying the data types for each column, the primary keys for each table, and any foreign keys or other constraints. After this, each CSV file was imported into its respective table. The code for the table schemas can be foudn in the employee_db_schemas.sql file.

## Data Analysis
The last part of this challenge involves analyzing the data to describe the company, departments, and employees in further detail. The following eight queries were performed:
1.) The first name, last name, sex, salary, and employee number for each employee
2.) The first name, last name, and specific hire date for each employee hired in the year 1986
3.) The first name, last name, employee number, department number, and department name for the manager of each department
4.) The first name, last name, employee number, department number, and department name for each employee
5.) The first name, last name, and sex of each employee in the company whose first name is Hercules and whose last name begins with the letter B
6.) The first name, last name, and employeee number of each employee in the Sales department
7.) The first name, last name, employee number, and department name of each employee in either the Sales or the Development department
8.) The frequency counts of each employee last name in the company, listed in descending order (most common last name first) 
The code for these queries can be found in the employees+db_query.sql file.

## References
Data generated by Mockaroo, LLCLinks to an external site., (2022). Realistic Data Generator.
